Another day, another challenge.
I love these challenge approach.
It teaches us so much.
So let's start with this
reading the fresh new
challenge in front of us.
Let's just say the challenge says
not just.
Let's just say it is saying that
you want to simulate a tea heating.
It starts with 40 degree
Celsius, of course, and boils
at 100 degrees Celsius.
Your task is pretty simple.
Use a while loop.
And this is a new kind of a loop.
We haven't seen that
in the past so far.
Increase the temperature by 15
until it reaches or exceeds 100.
Print each temperature step.
All right.
And after that also we'll
print some message.
So let's go ahead
and try out the loops.
So this is going to be
my, I guess sixth one.
So let's create a new file and call
this one as 06/ underscore and let's
call this one as tea temperature.
There we go.
So the step one is it asks us
to create a variable that is
temperature or you can
just call it as temp
for short and starts with 40.
We don't have to put a sign like
degrees Celsius or something.
For us it's just 40.
Now we have to use while loop
and we have to take care that it
needs to run till the hundred.
So the for loop is also pretty good.
But for loop is majorly used
for iterating over a list or when we
know there is something which
has auto ending or something.
Here we have to check and keep
on checking for a certain condition.
So just like we have if statement,
we also have a while statement
also known as while loop.
This is going to keep
on doing the stuff until
the condition becomes false.
So for example, the condition
which we are checking for is
temperature less than 100.
You can also check for equals
to 100 as well, just like this.
Less than equal to 100.
But we'll just check
for less than 100.
The moment it becomes 100.
That means it's done, it's boiled.
Now first of all it says that I want
to print increase the temperature by
15 until it reached or exceed 100.
And then we want to print
the temperature in each step.
So I would prefer to print my
temperature first, otherwise
if the value is all gone, it's
not going to be available.
Or anyways you can print
it afterwards as well.
No problem there.
We'll just go ahead and say
current temperature
and then we'll just print
the temperature just like that.
It also says that you need
to add the temperature by 15
until it decreases 100.
So every single time we obviously
have the access to this
temperature, we are going to go
ahead and say that whatever the
value of temperature is, we are
going to add 15 to this.
Now this is a very common syntax
and so many times you add 15 or one
or whatever the value to itself.
And it is such a common statement,
by the way, I just press control
slash to quickly comment a line.
This is such a common statement
that you will see that
temperature plus equals 15.
The line number 5 and line
number 6 are exactly same.
This also adds 15 to the existing
value of temperature.
This is a shorthand notation
of what we wrote about.
So whatever feels good
to you, you can use that.
Most of the time you'll see
people using the short one.
So plus equals means whatever
the existing values is, we
want to Increase it by 15.
Python is full
of these kinds of things.
Now we'll go outside of it, make
sure you keep an eye on the
indentation and we'll just print
up a message which says that T is
ready to boil, or T is ready to
be served.
So water is all ready.
So T, you can boil the T.
Now we'll save this and see
the result and I'll show you
different ways of how this
result can be manipulated.
Pretty simple, no big deal there.
So we'll just go ahead
and say Python 3.
This time it's 06.
And there we go.
So we can see current temperature
is 40, then we have 55, then
we have 70, then we have 85
and then it gets ready because it's
increasing by in itself 15.
The only change that you're going
to see if I take this line number
four and move it to the very end,
or probably we print the message
after increasing the value.
So a shortcut is just hold down
the option key or alt key
and move this line at the bottom.
Let's try to see what happens when
we run the program like this.
So notice here, this time it says
current temperature is 55.
So it comes up here, it increases
the temperature, so 40, added 15,
it becomes 55, then 70, then 85,
and then finally when we are here,
after 85, it actually increases it
to 100.
Once it is 100, that means 100
is not equals to 100, it is
it not less than 100, it is
actually equal to the 100.
So we simply get out of it
and we simply print this.
So again, depends on what
you really want to do.
I like to keep this at the very top
just like this.
Make sure you understand that
the how you write the code,
it's actually going to execute
in the same order as well.
So that is it.
Now you understand the while loop
as well as the importance of it,
as well as a use case for it.
You have done a practical
example for it.
That is it for this video.
Let's catch up in the next one.